Let's recap, okay?
Let's recap where we were, and get a sense
of what we've accomplished so far.
So, as of right now,
what we have done is we have taken
our site from the simplest
possible implementation.
Where we had a just an index
page in our source pages folder,
which is the smallest possible
implementation of a Gatsby site.
We took that added in links,
added it into additional pages.
We got site metadata in, built in SEO tag.
Got a shared layout, added some global
styles, got some scoped styles.
We're in pretty solid shape here,
we're building a site, right?
At this point what we've done
is we've effectively made it, so
that if we needed to get something
stored up and added into the internet.
We've got all of
the components to get there.
But there's some things that we
can do from here to give ourselves
more flexibility and more capability
in the way that we create pages.
In the way that we work
with data inside of Gatsby.
So what we're gonna do next is
we are going to jump in and
start playing with something called MDX.
So, a common approach for
writing content is Markdown.
And if you've ever worked with
the GitHub README, you've seen Markdown.
It's the idea that you create
a heading with one pound sign and
then you double it up that's an H2.
If you wanna do link, you say your link
text and then you link to something.
So, in Markdown, you've got a heading
like this, you can do text like this.
You wanna do a bulleted list, you can
do list one, two, this sort of thing.
And this is a really nice way to
write when you are trying to get
some content together,
you don't wanna think a lot about markup.
You don't want to have to write
your opening paragraph tags and
all the LI tags and things like that.
That can get really cumbersome
when you're trying to write.
So, blogging, documentation,
things like that.
It's nice to have this Markdown format.
But the challenge with Markdown
is that it is limited.
So the way that we write Markdown,
it kinda puts us in this position
where it's either all content or
we're writing custom stuff.
So if I wanted to, for example,
add a figure to my Markdown,
there's no way for
me to mark up a figure like this, right?
So I'm gonna end up, I've got my image.
And this has got whatever images, This and
it's some image and then,
I wanna add a caption so
I've got my fake caption,
and When you do this,
this is kind of a pain in Markdown because
it first of all it breaks your flow.
You're not thinking about content anymore.
Now you're thinking about markup.
And then imagine this gets more involved.
We've got some shareable component,
which is like a post image,
where we wanna add some styling to this so
that you can add captions.
And maybe in here you actually want
this to have like a caption and
then in addition to the caption, you
also wanna have your like photo credit.
And in your photo credit
you want to be able to set,
like credit is to whoever.
And so now all of a sudden you've got like
there's a lot you've got to remember and
if I were to be trying to write this,
there's a pretty low likelihood that I'm
going to remember all the class
names the exact markup.
So now when I'm writing my Markdown I end
up having to come in and I got to find one
of these I got to copy it, I got to
paste it into my document down here, and
then I got to edit all these fields.
So it's switching from
content creation to markup.
And that's a little bit challenging
when you're trying to stay in the flow
as a writer.
And that's why MDX is exciting,
because what MDX is letting us do is
it's letting us kinda componentize
that additional functionality if we
wanna bring in a react component we can.
And that way we are mostly
writing Markdown but
if we decide that we wanna
bring in some react, we can.
And that lets us build sort of like
if you've ever worked with WordPress,
a good example this is shortcodes,
f you ever use shortcodes in WordPress.
It's really nice to be able
to turn on the shortcodes and
just know that your content is gonna work.
And you don't have to remember how
the markup works or any of those things,
you just wrap it,
we would just go I wanna do a figure and
my figures gonna have a source of like,
image, whatever.
And an alt of whatever and
then we could put in a caption and
a credit, like this is way easier to
remember then we exact markup, right?
So this is a little more powerful
of an approach and it lets
me stay in the flow of writing without
having to go find some copy to copy paste